# Bangladesh-Emergency-Services-Mobile-Application

There are four main parts in the home of this app. 1\. ##### District Selector: At the top, there is a District Selector. By clicking on this selector, you can get the list of Divisions, click on a Division and then select your District. After selecting District, select a service which you need. When you select the service, you can get the list of the service providers’ address and phone number for that particular service. Then choose your area and make a call which you prefer, either Telephone or Mobile phone (in case of Fire Stations and Hospitals) or Call Duty Officer or OC (in case of Police Stations). You can also see the full address and save this number in your own contact list and can send this number to another one by clicking on the top panel of the area of each service. 2\. ##### Navigation Panel: This panel is positioned just below the District Selector. This panel contains some quick buttons like Facebook Connect, Contribution, User Guide and Settings. 1\. ##### Facebook Connect: Click on the Facebook button which is positioned at the left side of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Facebook button, you will get a selection prompt where you can see two types of Facebook Pages, i.e. Bangladesh Police and MIS: DGHS (Management Information System, DGHS, Bangladesh). If you select Bangladesh Police, you will be connected to Dhaka Metropolitan Police’s facebook page. If you select MIS: DGHS, you will be connected to Management Information System, DGHS, Bangladesh facebook page. 2\. ##### Contribution: This will help you to send any suggestion, information or location of a station to Police Station, Fire Service or Hospital. Click on the Contribution button which is positioned beside the Facebook button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Contribution button, you can see three blank fields (Name, Phone/Mobile Number, and Address) under Your Information (optional). You need to fill up these fields. Select Name field and type your name. Then select Phone/Mobile number field and type your current phone number. Select Address field and type your present address. After filling all these fields you can see three options (Police, Fire Service and Hospital). Select your desired option where you want to send your suggestion or information or Location of a station. After selecting your desired option you can see three options (Location of a Station, Suggestion and Information). Select option which you want to send to Police or Fire Station or Hospital. After that, there is a blank field where you can write about your suggestion or information or Location of a station. Again you can easily add your location from the map by clicking the field under Add location. Then click Submit button. Your contribution will be send. 3\. ##### User Guide: Click on the User Guide button which is positioned beside the Contribution button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. This will help you to know all the features of this application, how to use this application, how to get services easily. 4\. ##### Settings: Click on the Settings button which is positioned at the rightmost of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. After clicking this, select your present residence. Then select the nearest police station from your present residence. A quick police call will be forwarded to this police station on your emergency. Select your preferred language (English or Bangla). After setting all of these, click ok button, you will go back to Home. 3\. ##### Services: There are three types of services (Police Station, Fire Station & Nearest Hospital). Select your desired service. How these services can help you are given below. 1\. ##### Police Station: Click Police Station from the Home. You can see Bangladesh Police at the top. If you click Bangladesh Police, you can see the web address of Bangladesh Police. Click the web address. If your internet connection is on, you will be directly connected to the website of Bangladesh Police. Then you can see Select Unit option. Click Select Unit, there are two sub options (Metropolitan Police and Range Police). Select your desired one. If you select Metropolitan Police, there is a sub unit selection option. Then select your desired Sub Unit (Barisal Metropolitan Police, Chittagong Metropolitan Police, Dhaka Metropolitan Police, Khulna Metropolitan Police, Rajshahi Metropolitan Police, and Sylhet Metropolitan Police). After selecting your desired unit you can see the list of the place and phone numbers of the Duty Officer and OC. You can also see the full address, view location in map by clicking “Click to View in Map”, phone numbers (Duty Officer and OC) and save this number in your own contact list and can send this number to another one by clicking on the title of the panel that shows the name of the Police Station. If you want to call Duty Officer then click “Call Duty Officer”. If you want to call OC then click “Call OC”. There is a “Contribute” button at the left-bottom and a “Submit Complaint” button at the right-bottom. Click “Contribute” button to send any suggestion, information or Location of a station to Police Station. Click “Submit Complaint” button to send complain to Police Station. After clicking “Submit Complaint” button, you can see Complain Box. There are three blank fields (Name, Phone/ Mobile Number, Address). Fill up these fields First type your name in name fields, type your phone number in Phone/Mobile number field and type your address in Address field. Then type your complaint in the Text field. Click Submit button for sending complain to Police. 2\. ##### Fire Station: Click Fire Station from the Home. You can see Fire Service and Civil Defense at the top. If you click Fire Service and Civil Defense, you can see the web address of Fire Service and Civil Defense. Click the web address. If your internet connection is on, you will be directly connected to the web address of Fire Service and Civil Defense. Select your desired Division and then select your desired District. You can see the place of Fire station with phone number. You can also see the full address, view location in map by clicking “Click to View in Map”, phone numbers (Telephone number and Mobile number) and save this number in your own contact list and can send this number to another one by clicking on the place name. If you want to call by Telephone click “Call on Telephone”. If you want to call by Mobile then click “Call on Mobile”. There is a “Contribute” button at the left-bottom and a “Submit Complaint” button at the right-bottom. Click “Contribute” button to send any suggestion, information or Location of a station to Fire Station. Click “Submit Complaint” button to send complain to Fire Station. After clicking “Submit Complaint” button, you can see Complain Box. There are three blank fields (Name, Phone/ Mobile Number, Address). Fill up these fields. First type your name in name fields, type your phone number in Phone/Mobile number field and type your address in Address field. Then type your complaint in the Text field. Click Submit button for sending complaint to Fire Station. 3\. ##### Nearest Hospital: Click Nearest Hospital from the Home. You can see Hospitals at the top. If you click Hospitals, you can see the web address of DGHS (Directorate General of Health Service). Click the web address. If your internet connection is on, you will be directly connected to the website of DGHS. Select your desired Division and then select your desired District. You can see the place of Hospitals with phone number. You can also see the full address, view location in map by clicking “Click to View in Map”, phone numbers (Telephone number and Mobile number) and save this number in your own contact list and can send this number to another one by clicking on the place name. If you want to call by Telephone click “Call on Telephone”. If you want to call by Mobile then click “Call on Mobile”. There is a “Contribute” button at the left-bottom and a “Submit Complaint” button at the right-bottom. Click “Contribute” button to send any suggestion, information or Location of a station to Hospital. Click “Submit Complaint” button to send complain to Fire Station. After clicking “Submit Complaint” button, you can see Complain Box. There are three blank fields (Name, Phone/ Mobile Number, Address). Fill up these fields. First type your name in name fields, type your phone number in Phone/Mobile number field and type your address in Address field. Then type your complaint in the Text field. Click Submit button for sending complain to the hospital. 4\. ##### View on Map: 5\. ##### Quick access: At the bottom, there are two quick services. At the left-bottom, there is a Police Quick Call and at the right-bottom, there is a Fire Control Room which will help you to get your services on a click in case of super emergency. #### Key Features Features available in this application are compiled and briefly described below. * Browse numbers through different Police Stations, Fire Services and Hospitals * Facebook accessibility * Contribution * User Guide * Settings * Finding nearest Police Station, Fire Services Stations and Hospitals * Map * Police Quick Call * Fire Control Room #### Frequently Asked Questions 1\. How can I find a specific police station’s phone number and addresses? Ans: If you know the division name of that police station, just go to Police Station from the home. Click Select Unit, there is two sub options (Metropolitan Police and Range Police). Select your desired one. If you select Metropolitan Police, there is a sub unit selection option. Then select your desired Sub Unit (Barisal Metropolitan Police, Chittagong Metropolitan Police, Dhaka Metropolitan Police, Khulna Metropolitan Police, Rajshahi Metropolitan Police, and Sylhet Metropolitan Police). After selecting your desired unit you can see the list of the place and phone numbers of the Duty Officer and OC. Then you can select your location for getting phone number of the Duty Officer and OC and addresses. 2\. How to call any number from this app? Ans: Click on any number of the Phone Number Viewer. It will give you some options. Just click on “Call” option. Alternatively you can press and hold on a number to make a direct call. 3\. How to send a phone number to my friend using this app? Ans: Click on any number of the Phone Number Viewer. It will give you some options. Select “Send via SMS”. 4\. How to save a phone number of this app into my phone’s contact? Ans: Click on any number of the Phone Number Viewer. It will give you some options. Select “Save to Phone”. 5\. How to quickly inform my incidence to Police Station? Ans: Press the Police Quick Call from the left-bottom and call the Police Station. You need to set your present location, nearest police station and language (Bangla or English) from the Settings option which is positioned at the right-top of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector before using quick call service. 6\. How to quickly inform my incidence to Fire Station? Ans: Press the Fire Control Room from the right-bottom and call the Fire Station. 7\. What to do if I want to contact with Bangladesh Police via facebook? Ans: Click on the Facebook button which is positioned at the left side of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Facebook button, you can see two types of Facebook Pages which are Bangladesh Police and MIS: DHGS (Management Information System, DGHS, and Bangladesh). Select Bangladesh Police, you will be connected with Dhaka Metropolitan facebook page. 8\. What to do if I want to contact with MIS: DGHS via facebook? Click on the Facebook button which is positioned at the left side of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Facebook button, you can see two types of Facebook Pages which are Bangladesh Police and MIS: DHGS (Management Information System, DGHS, and Bangladesh). Select MIS: DHGS, you will be connected with Management Information System, DGHS, and Bangladesh facebook page. 9\. How to send any suggestion to Police Station? Ans: Click on the Contribution button which is positioned beside the Facebook button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Contribution button, you can see three blank fields (Name, Phone/Mobile Number, and Address) under Your Information (optional). You need to fill up these fields. Select Name field and type your name. Then select Phone/Mobile number field and type your current phone number. Select Address field and type your present address. After filling all these fields you can see three options (Police, Fire Service and Hospital). Select Police, you can see three options (Location of a Station, Suggestion and Information). Select Suggestion. After that, there is a blank field where you can write about your suggestion. Add Location and then click Submit button. Your contribution will be send. 10\. How to send any suggestion to Fire Service? Ans: Click on the Contribution button which is positioned beside the Facebook button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Contribution button, you can see three blank fields (Name, Phone/Mobile Number, and Address) under Your Information (optional). You need to fill up these fields. Select Name field and type your name. Then select Phone/Mobile number field and type your current phone number. Select Address field and type your present address. After filling all these fields you can see three options (Police, Fire Service and Hospital). Select Fire Service, you can see three options (Location of a Station, Suggestion and Information). Select Suggestion. After that, there is a blank field where you can write about your suggestion. Add Location and then click Submit button. Your contribution will be send. 11\. How to send any suggestion to Hospital? Ans: Click on the Contribution button which is positioned beside the Facebook button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Contribution button, you can see three blank fields (Name, Phone/Mobile Number, and Address) under Your Information (optional). You need to fill up these fields. Select Name field and type your name. Then select Phone/Mobile number field and type your current phone number. Select Address field and type your present address. After filling all these fields you can see three options (Police, Fire Service and Hospital). Select Hospital, you can see three options (Location of a Station, Suggestion and Information). Select Suggestion. After that, there is a blank field where you can write about your suggestion. Add Location and then click Submit button. Your contribution will be send. 12\. How to send any information to Police Station? Ans: Click on the Contribution button which is positioned beside the Facebook button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Contribution button, you can see three blank fields (Name, Phone/Mobile Number, and Address) under Your Information (optional). You need to fill up these fields. Select Name field and type your name. Then select Phone/Mobile number field and type your current phone number. Select Address field and type your present address. After filling all these fields you can see three options (Police, Fire Service and Hospital). Select Police, you can see three options (Location of a Station, Suggestion and Information). Select Information. After that, there is a blank field where you can write about your Information. Add Location and then click Submit button. Your contribution will be send. 13\. How to send any information to Fire Service? Ans: Click on the Contribution button which is positioned beside the Facebook button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Contribution button, you can see three blank fields (Name, Phone/Mobile Number, and Address) under Your Information (optional). You need to fill up these fields. Select Name field and type your name. Then select Phone/Mobile number field and type your current phone number. Select Address field and type your present address. After filling all these fields you can see three options (Police, Fire Service and Hospital). Select Fire Service, you can see three options (Location of a Station, Suggestion and Information). Select Information. After that, there is a blank field where you can write about your Information. Add Location and then click Submit button. Your contribution will be send. 14\. How to send any information to Hospital? Ans: Click on the Contribution button which is positioned beside the Facebook button of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. By clicking on Contribution button, you can see three blank fields (Name, Phone/Mobile Number, and Address) under Your Information (optional). You need to fill up these fields. Select Name field and type your name. Then select Phone/Mobile number field and type your current phone number. Select Address field and type your present address. After filling all these fields you can see three options (Police, Fire Service and Hospital). Select Hospital, you can see three options (Location of a Station, Suggestion and Information). Select Information. After that, there is a blank field where you can write about your suggestion. Add Location and then click Submit button. Your contribution will be send. 15\. What to do in case of sudden outbreak of fire? Ans: Press the Fire Control Room from the right-bottom and call the Fire Station. 16\. How to select preferred language? Ans: Click on the Settings button which is positioned at the right of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. Select your preferred language (English or Bangla). Click ok button. You will be going back to Home. 17\. How to set your present residence for calling your nearest police station? Ans: Click on the Settings button which is positioned at the right of the Navigation panel just below the District Selector. After clicking this, select your present residence. Then select the nearest police station from your present residence. A quick police call will be forwarded to this police station on your emergency.
